hello everyone it's Celina and today
I'll be sharing with you guys my IB
experience and some advice that I have
for current IB students if you guys want
to know what subjects that did and how I
did in the specific subject I'm gonna
link my IB reaction video up here so you
guys just click on that and then you
will see what I got in every subject but
for now I could just tell you guys I got
43 points to total and I'm just gonna
share a few guys my reflections on the
i-beam my first point is that in my
opinion the IB is a lot less about your
study skills and a lot more about your
time management skills because at the
end of the day the things that you go to
study for the IB actually not that hard
like when you just look at it you know
like in terms of understanding it's
actually not like that much of an
expectation but what is really hard is
that you have content of two years that
you gotta put down on a paper in like
three hours in that final exam and that
means you need really good time
management skills throughout your two
years in order to have two notes ready
when you're walking into your study
leave so that you're just revising
during your study leave and that
requires a continuous commitment to
studying and I know it's really easy to
just be like oh well that exams not
gonna count anything it's just my final
so I don't need to make steady nose no
you do need to make steady notes because
if you don't you're just gonna be there
in your study leave making all your
notes but not revising them and then
they're not gonna be very helpful to you
because you didn't have time to look
over them so that's really my main tip
time management and that's really really
important and in order to be good at
time management you need to know all
your assessments you need to know what
papers to prepare for you need to know
if there is an additional exam to the
written exam you need to know when you
need to hand in specific essays etc and
it's really important that you keep
track of all these things so that you
can actually be good at you know
managing your time if you guys want a
video about time management let me know
I feel like I can't like put all of this
into this video because then this video
is going to turn into like a half an
hour video but yeah let me know if you
guys would be interested in that I'm
happy to make it but that's really my
main advice and that's what I think
really IB teaches you time management
which is really helpful because when you
go to university you need it so I'm it's
a life skill that is actually useful now
my next thing is more of an advice and
that's
prioritize the really important things
in the IB there's a lot of things that
you need to do we're not all of them are
equal
important one of the things that I like
to mention here are cast reflections you
don't need to spend in half an hour
reflecting on your cast experiences okay
writing a cast reflection should not
take you longer than 10 minutes and 10
minutes is quite a lot for writing you
cast reflection because to be honest the
things that you choose for cast they
should actually be pretty easy to
reflect on and I mean if you're using a
platform like manage back it's my school
then they already tell you like what
other learning outcomes
just pick a learning outcome and be like
okay so how can i connect my activity to
this learning outcome and it's usually
pretty easy and you know those
reflections they don't need to be 1000
word essays it can be a paragraph as
long as that paragraph is meaningful so
for example I did Model United Nations
and you can talk a lot about teamwork
you can talk about global issues that
are head because you discuss them it
just links to so many of the learning
outcomes so you know just be very clear
this is what I did in the activity
here's how it links to this particular
learning outcome and this is what I
learned from it and that's it okay
that's all you need for a cast
reflection writing cast reflections
should be a maximum of a 10 minute task
and another important point is don't
write your cast reflections on the day I
do okay write them continuously like put
it in your calendar like every two weeks
I'm gonna write one reflection for each
of my activities and then you're done
with it and you know it shouldn't take
you a long time because those
reflections are super easy to ride and
the thing is if you're writing
continuously you're still remembering
what you did in the last session and you
know because we do it at the end of the
year it's like you remember the last
session but you don't remember all of
them before so it's really hard to come
up with like different things to write
in your reflection which makes it less
creative and your teacher is gonna be
like well did she actually reflect and I
know they don't count anything but you
know you still want them to at least
sound good because many teachers also do
take them into consideration when
writing University recommendations so
yeah you do want them to sound like you
actually put some fault into them all
right my next tip is again about time
management and this is about your
extended essay and your is so my tip for
that is write them over the summer
seriously like
I know everybody goes out of school as
their first year Dec yeah yeah I'm gonna
do all of these things over to someone
and come back nothing got done don't be
this person okay be that person that
comes back and has their first draft for
the EE and all their is ready that's the
person you want to be after the summer
break believe me everybody's gonna be
like well we're like did you even have a
summer and maybe you did it maybe just
work on all these things but believe me
you're not gonna regret it
because um second year gets really
really busy really really quickly
because even if you do all your first
drafts of these IAS and your E you still
have to do a final draft you know so
you're just gonna get it back and then
you have to write edited but you don't
want to be working on your first drafts
your university applications and then
your final drafts no you don't and your
exam prep before your final exams
because those are all coming at you in
second year and you know you think you
can easily manage that but really you
can't so just write them over the summer
it's absolutely time well-spent I wrote
my EE and oh my is except for biology
over the summer because I couldn't write
PI over the summer because I had to do a
lab and it was only allowed to do it in
school so what I did is I wrote as much
of it as I could and then the lab in
school and then I handed it in and to be
honest that was the best choice I could
wish because I think my EE wouldn't have
turned out even like a quarter as good
as it was had I done it while I was at
school because I wouldn't have had time
then I probably put more than 40 hours
into my EE but should be honest I
enjoyed it it was worth it to me and I
think it paid off now unless you're
doing a bad legal certificate you are
probably studying a second language and
my advice for all students who are doing
any language which isn't their mother
tongue is to watch movies read books and
listen to music in that language because
it makes it so much easier to learn it
like just you know constantly expose
yourself to it and most importantly
expose yourself to it during the summer
break because every wise you come back
and you just forgot it all because
languages say they're not something that
you can like study in a few hours
you know like for math you can revise a
few times do a few practice problems and
you're good to go it doesn't work like
that for languages languages are about
continuous practice and you just
no need to expose yourself to itch like
keep your brain in the mood for speaking
that language and gonna help me a lot
with French I just watched a lot of
French TV shows and that just helped me
you know stay like in the mood for
French and keep my grandma it's sort of
in my head like I didn't do any like
revision exercises or anything like I
just don't really enjoy them but for me
I learned when I talk to people or when
I listen to people speaking French
because it just reminds me of okay this
is the grammar structure you need to use
so I highly recommend doing that
especially over the summer break to
ensure that you're not losing your
language I already mentioned that time
management is important when it comes to
study news and I just want to make
another point about study news and that
is you really kind of keep them all in
like one place you know where they are
and they gotta be in order because if
you have study notes which are just
super messy and they're all over the
place you don't know where to start
studying and it's just gonna demotivate
you and you're probably gonna lose an
hour just by searching for the right
study notes to stay from if you guys
want to know how I organize my study
notes I'm gonna link a video up there
you can just click on it it's my study
method that I used for the IB I found
that method really helpful but I think
everybody's got to find a system that
works for them so I would recommend
trying out a few systems of you know
filing things and stuff just to find out
what works best for you and know whether
flashcards work for you everywhere you
just want to write things down on paper
or whether it may be you learn best by I
don't know drawing it out or whatever
but make sure that you know what works
best for your brain and then use it in
order to remember it and I think that's
really really important for study notes
that you know they're effective and
they're in a place where you can easily
find them because otherwise studying
just you know becomes a lot harder and
yeah you're just less motivated to do it
now last but not least I have some
advice about practice papers and this is
really about the continuous practising
and I feel like a lot of paper when they
talk about the IB they just say well you
just gotta do practice papers and you're
gonna do a lot of them
but the thing is um even people here
that they seem to think okay so I gotta
sit this free our paper they've made a
best every week just to you know
practice and everybody knows that you
don't have the time to do that for every
subject every week now what should you
do my advice is to pick one question
from an exam paper and do that and do
one question
subject every week and it's really
important that you stick to that ritual
now what I mean when I say one question
is pick a question that will take you at
least ten minutes or if you're doing
multiple choice questions from biology
paper one that's fine but then you do
the entire paper okay don't kill
yourself you can do math but if it's
like a long essay question you know you
can't do like 20 of them like that just
doesn't work so you know pick a question
which you realistically take you some
time but not too much of your time and
then when you answer it actually look at
the marking criteria and think about is
my own sand good enough and if you're
not sure just go to your teacher and
give it to them and be like well I don't
know if this is good can you help me and
they can look over it and they can tell
you how much you would have scored on
that particular question and I think
that's a super helpful because it helps
you learn to look out for traps and the
questions it helps you to know how to
answer a question in order to score well
with the marking criteria and most
importantly you know it just helps your
brain to remember the information
because you have to apply it to a
particular question now obviously if
you're studying subjects like history
and girl politics and English where it's
basically just essay questions it's a
little bit harder to do that because
every essay is supposed to take you
around my 45 minutes so here's how I
solve that problem I didn't write the
entire essay I just wrote an outline so
you can take like five to ten minutes
for writing an outline that's it and
writing the outline really helps it up
because you know exactly how would I
structure this essay which examples
would I use would I introduce the
counterclaim would I not how much words
would I allocate to this how much would
I want this to take out for my essay all
these fingers you know and the outline
is what your essay would be based on
like you can usually tell by the outline
how good your essay will be and it's
important that when you look at you
outline you also ask yourself if it's
realistic that you could you know go
through this entire outline in the time
but you have for writing that essay and
you can also ask teachers to just look
over your outline and give you some
feedback on that now my teacher is
really happy to do that and I think that
just helped a lot especially because
outlining things is a skill that's often
not practiced a lot so you know a lot of
teachers they give you feedback on your
essay but they don't give you feedback
on your plan
but the planning is the thing that sets
you up for success with your essay so if
you do a lot of practice and planning
you're already one step ahead in the
exam so I would highly recommend doing
that for humanities subjects see I chose
all my tips for the IB I hope that has
helped you guys I tried to reflect on my
experience think about what you know I
found helpful as a student what I wish I
had done differently and yeah I hope
this was helpful for some of you guys if
you guys have any questions for me if
you feel you drop them in the comments
below or send me a message for the
context section of my blog which is
linked below as well thank you guys so
much for watching have a nice day bye